# 1620

The Protestant League rallies to the call of Frederick I of the Palatinate,
defeating the Austrian army in the Battle of the White Mountain, sparking the
Twenty-Five Years' War between the Catholics and Protestants in Central Europe.

# 1639

Frederick I is mortally wounded at the battle of Ilmenau, succeeded by his son
Charles II of Bohemia and the Palatinate. This will directly lead to an
abolishment of Elective Monarchy in Bohemia after the war.

# 1645

The Treaty of Vienna ends the Twenty-Five Years' War, establishing both
political and religious independence of the German principalities and conceding
the (largely ritual, but still highly prestigious) role of the Holy Roman
Emperor, to be borne by the Hapsburg dynasty in Austria.

The Kingdom of Bohemia also gains the lands of the Palatinate, leading to future
territorial struggles with Bavaria, while it gives up the Lusatias to Saxony.
The Czech estates push for recognition of Czech as the official language of the
kingdom, but Frederick I decides to include both of the most common languages,
Czech and German, into the newly-written document.

# 1660

The future crown prince Frederick is born to Charles's wife Elisabeth of
Rakonitz (Anežka Rakovnická).

# 1672

The marriage of the crown prince Frederick and princess Marie Eleonore of Saxony
creates an alliance between the two lands that would last, in various forms,
until today.

# 1679

Charles II dies at the age of 62 from an infected wound sustained during a
hunting trip. He is succeeded by his son, Frederick II.

# 1680s

The threat of the Ottoman invasion into Central Europe leads Frederick II to
provide 8000 troops in the Battle of Vienna. The largely Protestant Bohemian
estates see this as a proof of pro-Catholic sentiments.

# 1693-94

## The First Bavarian War

Territorial demands by Maximilian II of Bavaria that Bohemia returns to its
"natural borders" formed by the Bohemian Forest (Šumava) mountain range escalate
from minor border skirmishes into a full war. The war ends with a conclusive
victory for the Bohemians with the decisive help of the Saxon army in the Battle
of Rokycany. Bavaria is forced to give up any claims on the territory of the
Palatinate.

# 1750-53

## The Second Bavarian War

As part of a larger political struggle in Central Europe, Bohemia is once again
brought into war with Bavaria. The combined Bavarian-Austrian forces push the
Bohemians deep into their country and nearly-successfully siege down Prague,
which is only relieved by a small Saxon army marching from the north. In the
ensuing fights, neither side gains decisive victory over the other and the war
is officially ended in the Second Treaty of Vienna which firmly establishes the
borders between Bohemia and Bavaria.

# 1793

## The July Republic

The French and American revolutions lead to a short-lived Czech revolution.
The peasants in eastern Bohemia and western Moravia rise up, forming the
Republic of Bohemia. The republic lasts from 9 July to 26 July. The revolution
fails as the peasant throng marches on Prague but is met by the royal army near
Kolín and near-completely obliterated. However, some of the revolutionary ideas
gain traction among the nobility.

# 1799

## The Peaceful Revolt

With the French threat starting to loom larger on the horizon, the growing group
of revolutionary thinkers among the Bohemian estates gain an opportunity to make
their voices heard when George III calls for martial readiness among the nobles.
The revolutionary minority is joined by the majority who see the weak king as an
opportunity to gain more power. George, rather than face a potential internal
struggle, capitulates. However, in the ensuing debate about the new form of
government, the nobles are not united in their demands. Still, despite their
disunity, they eventually present the king with a new constitution, transforming
the kingdom into a constitutional monarchy. In the constitution, the monarch
still retains the right to dictate foreign policy with certain provisions, as
the royal European polity was considered too important to maintain, but is
divested of nearly all internal power.

# 1806-09

## Napoleonic Wars

Bohemia rallies with the other Central European powers (including Austria,
Bavaria, Saxony, and Prussia) to defend against Napoleon's France. However, the
hodgepodge coalition is no match to the battle-hardened French troops and
Napoleon is able to waltz straight through the heart of Europe after his victory
at Freital. However, the ensuing march on Russia proves fatal to the French
forces as the Russian winter decimates Napoleon's forces. The renewed coalition,
with Russia pushing from the east and fresh Swedish troops supporting the
Germans and Czechs, is able to push Napoleon back past the Rhine.

# 1820s

A series of famines leads directly to two main developments in the Kingdom of
Bohemia -- rapid industrialisation and the idea of Slavic Solidarity.

## Industrialisation of the Czech Lands

By the 19th century, most Bohemian nobles have already been involved in various
mercantile enterprises. However, the famines, brought about by a series of long
winters and plant diseases striking down crops throughout Central Europe,
necessitate imports of food from outside countries, mostly Austria, as the
fields in Hungary and Transylvania have been mostly left untouched, but also
Venice and, for certain goods, Russia. To get the funds, many of the mercantile
nobles focus heavily on export, increasing their industrial base to be able to
support a steady export stream.

At the same time, king Rudolph III embarks on what is the most ambitious project
ever achieved in Bohemia -- complete overhaul of its road network and
establishing a parallel railroad network as well. Originally, the railroad is
supposed to lighten the load on major roads, with the flow going from local
factories via roads to major trade centres, from there on rail to river ports,
and exported out on boats. However, the massive interest by the local nobles in
the railroad leads to ever-increasing spread and before the end of the century,
nearly every village will be connected to the railroad network directly.

## Slavic Solidarity

The idea of Slavic Solidarity is imported into the kingdom with the foreign
goods, as the outward-looking Bohemians notice the large Slovak minority in upper
Hungary. For now, the idea remains just an idea, but it will have a large impact
on the foreign Bohemian policy towards Austria (and later, Hungary) throughout the
next two centuries.

# 1850s

## Bohemian identity

As the wave of nationalism sweeps across the continent, the Bohemian nobility
and academia struggle to define what it is to be Bohemian. The bilingual nation
claims both Czech and Palatinate heritage, and efforts are made to unite these
two into a single identity. Multiple writers and historians compile folk
stories, mythologies, and fairy tales, while composers and artists capture the
soul of the nation. The definitive works from this period include _Rodina má_ by
Jan Jindřich Müller, an epic poem retelling the mythic history of Czechs and
Germans, with each stanza alternating between Czech and German, and _Lorelei_ by
Boleslav Ptáček, often considered one of the seminal works of musical
romanticism.

# 1875

The Bohemian Parliament becomes bicameral, with hereditary **Rada**/**Rathaus**
and elected **Sněm**/**Parlament**. The first elected Premier of Bohemia is
Johann Boskowitz, representing a pro-integration majority party **Junge
Böhmen**. He will be re-elected in 1880.

# 1893

Bohemian linguist Johann Jakub Mlynář publishes _Über böhmische Sprachen_, the
definitive work describing the current state of languages used in the Kingdom of
Bohemia. In his book, Mlynář argues that the influence of Czech led to creation
of a unique dialect of German, which he calls _Böhmisch_ (a term originally used
in the Palatinate to describe German used by the Czech colonists during the 18th
century).

# 1910-1921

## The War in Europe

### Prelude to a War

The turn of the twentieth century sees a large effort by the Kingdom of Prussia
to unify all German-speaking countries into a single German empire. However,
thanks to a longstanding history of independence among the larger nations, the
empire only really unites the northern German states, while in the south, a mad
rush of both political negotiations and militaristic expansions leads to more
powerful Bavaria and Austria, which has lost Hungary in the War of Hungarian
Secession in 1884.

However, in 1903, the German state of Westfallen is integrated into the Prussian
State, marking it the last to do so. Prussia now controls everything from the
Rhine through northern Brandenburg to East Prussia. Southern Brandenburg, as
well as the Kingdom of Hesse (which itself was formed nearly 60 prior from the
former Grand Duchies of Hesse and Saxe-Weimar and have since integrated most of
the minor duchies and principalities in the area) have been annexed by Saxony.
In the south, Austria incorporates the territory of Alsace-Lorraine and the
southern part of the Grand Duchy of Baden, while the Kingdom of
Bavaria-Württemberg (formed from a personal union of the two kingdoms in 1863)
grows to include the northern Baden and Rhineland province.

### Meeting of the Germanies

Even then, the expansionist desires of the German monarchs are not sated in the
least. The monolithic might of France in the west, however, does not bode well
for the comparatively smaller kingdoms of Central Europe. And so, secret
missives are exchanged, which leads to the 1910 "Meeting of the Germanies" at
the castle of Lednice in Bohemia. The kingdom, which has so far not involved
itself in the German squabbles over territory, is originally chosen only as
neutral grounds for the meeting. A discussion between the Queen Anne of Saxony
and her cousin Charles V of Bohemia, intended to arrange the meeting, reveals
territorial tastes of the Bohemian king and he is invited to the plot.

As the lands to the west are considered too dangerous for any militaristic
expansion, the eyes of the Germans turn eastward. Archduke Ferdinand of Austria
sees the reconquest of Hungary and its Transylvanian territories as his main
goal. Maximilian of Bavaria and Anne of Saxony are both eyeing the juicy Poland
as theirs for the taking. Hans Friedrich of Prussia desires to wrestle the
Baltics from the ailing Russian empire, struggling to contain its many peasant
revolts. Charles of Bohemia first declares for southern Poland and Ruthenia, but
then he adds northern Hungary to appease the resurgent Slavic Solidarity
sentiment in the nation.

### First Strike

With their spoils of war already divided, the monarchs agree to what will become
known as the **German Pact**. General mobilisation is called for. After so many
years of German infighting, most European nations are caught completely
unprepared when the **Pact** declares war on Poland and Hungary on 14 August
1911, the combined German and Bohemian might hammering eastward, seemingly
unstoppable. In the south, the Ottomans, seeing the sudden disarray in Europe,
declare a war of opportunity on Transylvania and the Kingdom of Sicily, offering
a support to the Austrians if their claims in Transylvania are accepted.

The quick progress of German and Bohemian troops is, however, quickly halted by
an unexpectedly strong Polish resistance. The "quick and easy" war
soon turns into a slow and laborious endeavour as trenches are drawn across the
once-fertile lands of central Poland. The Hungarian campaign proceeds much
better, comparatively, aided by several pro-Austrian groups, and most of Hungary
is occupied by the winter of 1914.

Meanwhile, the Ottoman attack of Sicily provokes a quick counter by Sicily's
ally Spain, although the Spanish contribution to the Sicilian war soon becomes
the subject of jokes and ridicule across the continent. So, apart from the
trench war in Poland, everything seems to be going right for the **Pact**. Until
Russia gets involved.

### Russian Involvement

As the Polish War enters its fifth year, Russian troops enter Poland -- not as
occupants, but as allies. The secret agreement of the five **Pactist** monarchs
to divide the lands is stolen and used to convince Emperor Anatoly II of Russia
to aid in defence against the German menace. Russia's entry into the war is
followed by France, eager to reclaim Alsace-Lorraine and take the Rhineland
territories. Suddenly, the **Pact** powers face war on two fronts.

Unwilling to give up his eastern claims, especially since he has already retaken
Hungary, Archduke Ferdinand opens negotiations with the Ottomans, accepting
their terms in regards to their claims in Transylvania. In return, he demands an
immediate attack on France by the Ottoman army currently fortifying its hold on
Sicily and on Russia across the Black Sea. Further negotiations are required
before Sultan Murad VI agrees to the terms and the **German Pact** is amended
to the **German-Ottoman Pact**.

### The Long War

By 1918, the War in Europe, as it becomes known, has pulled the entire continent
into the brawl. Right now, the war is mostly stalemated, with trenches drawn
across multiple fronts -- the French-Ottoman front in southern France, the
French-German front across the western German states, the Polish front, and the
Russian-Ottoman front along the coast of the Black Sea. The attack on Russia has
brought in the British as well, though their own overseas problems have so far
led only to a token naval presence in the Mediterranean.

In an effort to undermine Russian involvement in the war, Prussian agents make
contacts with various revolutionary groups throughout the Baltic coast and in
1919, they finally succeed. Максим Александрович Лавров (_Maxim Alexandrovich
Lavrov_) is a young charismatic leader of the НационалЬное братство (_National
Brotherhood_), a revolutionary organisation with members throughout western
Russia. The Prussians start funnelling money to Maxim and by 1919, the flames of
the revolution burn bright and hot across the face of Mother Russia.

### British Coup

At the same time the Polish front seems to be moving for the first time in
nearly a decade and the Ottomans face little to no resistance in southern
Russia, a British force suddenly and successfully invade Sicily, cutting off the
main Ottoman army in the south of France from supplies. The Ottomans try to
negotiate a passage of supplies across the Adriatic and on land through the
Kingdom of Italy, but the Italians are wary after the Ottoman invasion of their
southern neighbours and resolve to remain neutral in the war. Without supplies,
the Ottoman front is overran in weeks.

With the British now properly participating in the war, the victory of the
**Pact** seems less likely by the hour. The Prussian coast is quickly blockaded
by British navy, putting pressure on the German homeland, compounded as the
French forces start redeploying along the western front. 1920 sees the first use
of airstrikes, as the French unveil a secret weapon they've been working on. The
_Aviator_ is a small two-seat aircraft with manual release mechanism that locks
up and fails more often than not, but despite the flaws, the use of the bombing
runs is so effective the French troops push into Bohemia just two months after
the first deployment of the aircraft. The terrified Germans sue for peace.

### The Peace of Warsaw

At the peace conference in Warsaw, emotions are running high. Many of Europe's
nations are in attendance. For the **Pact**, Prussia, Saxony, Bavaria, Bohemia,
Austria, and the Ottoman Empire. For the **Allies**, Poland, Hungary, France,
Britain, Sicily, and Spain. Russia is conspicuous in its absence. The conference
takes place within eyesight of a German trench, a pithy reminder of the reason
for this gathering.

To the Germans, Bohemians, and Ottomans, the peace is devastating. The Ottomans
are forced to give up all of their lands outside Asia Minor and pay war
reparations to Sicily for the next 10 years. The city of Constantinople is moved
under joint French and British rule. The German lands beyond the Rhine are
repatriated to France. The Germanies are expected to pay a staggering amount of
1.5 million kronen to the French and British and another 1 million to the Polish
and the Hungarians. Prussia has to give up Eastern Prussia to Poland. Poland
also gains Silesia from Bohemia. Austria is forced to set free its lands along
the Adriatic coast. Finally, all rulers of the **Pact** are forced to abdicate,
with the **Allies** hoping the next generation will be more willing to stay in
their borders.

The total Bohemian payment of war reparations comes to 400,000 kronen. The
settlement leaves the government in debt for the next 10 years.

# 1920-1940

## Rebuilding

While the Czech lands are relatively untouched by the war, the same cannot be
said about the Palatinate. Premier Karl Heinrich institutes, at the express
request by the Queen Agnes II, a large scale project to rebuild the country.
With no available budget, multiple charities are organised to ensure the basic
necessities to the citizens in the Palatinate. Many prominent architects,
including Tomáš Pfeizr and Marie Obermeyerová, are contracted to redesign entire
towns, and many of them work for free. In later years, this period will be
extolled as the true expression of "Bohemianism".

The city of Regensburg, by-and-large the product of Alessandro Vitali and his
student, Salvatore Rossi, designed notoriously during a single summer of 1937,
is a classic example of post-war German neo-conservatism. Today, the city is
part of the UNESCO Heritage programme.

# 1931

The nationalist party **Unsere vlast** (_Our homeland_), formed in the wake of
the Warsaw Treaty, is elected to the **Rada** for the first time. Party leader
Luboš Horníček, already infamous for his anti-Polish opinions, pushes for
retaking Silesia by force, if necessary. His words, "Slezsko je Česko!"
(_Silesia is Bohemia!_) become popularised especially in the north of Moravia,
which has been the most economically impacted by the loss of Silesia.
